They’re ghost stories. Frightful tales whispered to children by night cycle lamps. Dread accounts told to fellow sailors in the humming darkness of lang0haul freighters.

Even now, in our growing enlightenment, when we know so much more about the Shaleri passage and its strange inhabitants, the sheer differentness of the Shaleri and its Ghosts seduce such tales to persist.

An almost endless variation of hearsay and rumor can be found on the topic of the Shaleri anomaly. Rare records of purported fact are, at best, of irregular verifiability. While now a respected sociological study, what is truly known of the Shaleri remains infinitely smaller than the abundance of myth that clouds its past.

For millennia, space in proximity of the Shaleri anomaly has been mistrusted and avoided by space farers. Despite the undeniable historic university in avoiding this region, few concrete explanations have been made as to the reason for such aversion. Some simply denote the area as “high risk”. Others conjecture taht the area ebbs with “unknown radiation”. Regrettably, most navigation records simply refer to the Shaleri region as “bad space” – the superstitious spacefaring analogy of “here be dragons”.

What is known for sure is the Shaleri space has over time been responsible for an unusually high number of missing vessels, an extraordinarily high number in fact. For such a high proportion of lost traffic the absence of distress beacons, message capsules or any signs whatsoever of the missing ships has been described in official records as “disturbing”. It is perhaps more aptly described using a favoured term of sailors and storytellers, spooky.

The mystery of the Shaleri region goes further and deeper than just that of missing spaceships. Among crews that have safely made journeys through the region, there are records of strange equipment malfunctions, bad dreams and sudden illnesses. There are accounts of purported “sightings”: eldritch encounters with beings described as strange fibrous clouds of energy. While such accounts may have been dismissed in the past as the fantasies of oxygen-deprived sailors, the hindsight of our recent association with the Ghosts place these reports in a more credible light.

There are several trade routes that when traced through rather than around Shaleri space will save the traveler substantial time and fuel. It follows therefore, that willingness to brave its dark reputation has come with substantial profit for those captains who have dared to travel in this “bad space” and returned to tell the tale. It was in pursuit of such profit that the Mentak frigate Entropic undertook its fifth journey through Shaleri space.

The Entropic had been traveling through Shaleri space for three days when it was interdicted by three formidable vessels of unknown vessels of unknown origin. The vessels, each the size of a Mentak battlecruiser, were of grey lobstered steel, their surface intricately inscribed with interweaving runic latticework. It is this meeting between the Entropic and the Creuss warships that we mark as First Contact between the Ghosts of Creuss and a member race of the galactic council.

It’s not known why the beings that dwell within the Shaleri anomaly (now commonly called the “Creuss Gate”) chose to reveal themselves during the early Years of Awakening. Perhaps they’d finally learned enough about the galaxy that surrounded them? Perhaps their societal progress had finally propelled them into the greater universe? A more ominous possibility, one favoured by storytellers, is that the Ghosts of Creuss have come forth for some sinister purpose yet to be revealed.

As beings of energy and light, the Ghosts certainly can be placed among the strangest of the known races. The famous historian Merean Barquan described them as “ethereal luxsunaptic souls”. As their forms do not remain stable outside the strange gravity of the Creuss itself, the Ghosts garb themselves in intricate metalwork. Not only does the armour stabilize the Ghosts, but its tangible shape places members of the other races more at ease in their presence. Individual Creuss can be discerned from one another by the unique design of their helmets, which , like their ships, are intricately carved with runes.

The Ghosts of Creuss have shown themselves to be civilized, polite and masters of many strange sciences and materials. Yet, they’re also regarded as exceptionally secretive, ritualistic and prickly on a wide range of matters. Its generally undecided whether their behaviour is one to be expected of a race so recently introduced to the material galaxy or whether these are signs that something more ominous lurks beneath their brooding metal helmets.